.\" process with:
.\" groff -man -Tascii backup.1 | less

.TH "backup" "1" "1.34" "Ilan A. Smith" "Utilities"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
backup \- maintains a list of data to be backed up, and backs it up on demand.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
backup < \-e | \-b [ conf_file ] > [ \-f ]
.br 
backup < \-v | \-h >
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Backup helps maintain the file \fBbackup.conf\fR.
Every now and again one comes across some data worth holding on to in times of 
major catastrophe \- such as disk formatting. When ever coming across a file 
or directory worth keeping, backup should be used to add it to backup.conf. 
Backup can later be used to backup all the data accumulated.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR Edit the configuration file
Enter the full paths to directories or files you wish to backup.
A line can be commented out by using the # character. Once an existing 
configuration file is modified, backup displays a diff between the previous and 
the current versions.
.TP 
\fB\-b\fR Backup the data listed in backup.conf
backup uses the default configuration file (~/.backup.conf) unless a conf_file 
is stated specifically.
The gzipped tarball \fBbackup.tar.gz\fR containing the backed up files will be 
placed in the working directory.
.br 
Because the access rights of some paths to be backed up are usually root, it is 
recommended to backup as root.
.TP 
\fB\-f\fR
Do not prompt to clean configuration file of redundant paths.
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR
Output version information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR
Output a help message and exit.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
\fI~/.backup.conf\fP  Backup file consisting of all the paths to be backed up.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP 
.TP 
\fBEDITOR\fP
Set this variable to use an editor of your choice. If EDITOR is not set, backup 
will use vim for editing the configuration file.
.TP 
\fBDIFFPROG\fP
Set this variable to use a diff program of your choice. If DIFFPROG is not set, 
backup will use GNU diff
.SH "AUTHOR"
.LP 
Ilan A. Smith <lunnys@gmail.com>
